---
author: Food Jd. Aficionado
categories:
- italian cuisine
- cured meats
- culinary adventure
date: "2022-12-24T00:00:00Z"
description: Capicola
image: /assets/images/904865f7-534f-4136-bf1e-5540c60aa318.png
nutrients:
- amount: 0
  ingredientAmount: 100
  ingredientUnit: g
  name: Carbohydrates
  unit: g
- amount: 0
  ingredientAmount: 100
  ingredientUnit: g
  name: Trans Fat
  unit: g
- amount: 0
  ingredientAmount: 100
  ingredientUnit: g
  name: Fluoride
  unit: mg
- amount: 10.7
  ingredientAmount: 100
  ingredientUnit: g
  name: Mono Unsaturated Fat
  unit: g
- amount: 8.9
  ingredientAmount: 100
  ingredientUnit: g
  name: Saturated Fat
  unit: g
- amount: 0
  ingredientAmount: 100
  ingredientUnit: g
  name: Folate
  unit: µg
- amount: 0
  ingredientAmount: 100
  ingredientUnit: g
  name: Vitamin B6
  unit: mg
- amount: 1.2
  ingredientAmount: 100
  ingredientUnit: g
  name: Iron
  unit: mg
- amount: 0
  ingredientAmount: 100
  ingredientUnit: g
  name: Vitamin B1
  unit: mg
- amount: 0
  ingredientAmount: 100
  ingredientUnit: g
  name: Vitamin C
  unit: mg
- amount: 0
  ingredientAmount: 100
  ingredientUnit: g
  name: Manganese
  unit: mg
- amount: 0
  ingredientAmount: 100
  ingredientUnit: g
  name: Vitamin B12
  unit: µg
- amount: 0
  ingredientAmount: 100
  ingredientUnit: g
  name: Potassium
  unit: mg
- amount: 2107
  ingredientAmount: 100
  ingredientUnit: g
  name: Sodium
  unit: mg
- amount: 0
  ingredientAmount: 100
  ingredientUnit: g
  name: Selenium
  unit: µg
- amount: 0
  ingredientAmount: 100
  ingredientUnit: g
  name: Phosphorus
  unit: mg
- amount: 89
  ingredientAmount: 100
  ingredientUnit: g
  name: Cholesterol
  unit: mg
- amount: 0
  ingredientAmount: 100
  ingredientUnit: g
  name: Magnesium
  unit: mg
- amount: 0
  ingredientAmount: 100
  ingredientUnit: g
  name: Zinc
  unit: mg
- amount: 0
  ingredientAmount: 100
  ingredientUnit: g
  name: Vitamin B2
  unit: mg
- amount: 0
  ingredientAmount: 100
  ingredientUnit: g
  name: Vitamin B3
  unit: mg
- amount: 0
  ingredientAmount: 100
  ingredientUnit: g
  name: Vitamin A
  unit: IU
- amount: 0
  ingredientAmount: 100
  ingredientUnit: g
  name: Copper
  unit: mg
- amount: 0
  ingredientAmount: 100
  ingredientUnit: g
  name: Caffeine
  unit: mg
- amount: 0
  ingredientAmount: 100
  ingredientUnit: g
  name: Vitamin E
  unit: mg
- amount: 0
  ingredientAmount: 100
  ingredientUnit: g
  name: Vitamin D
  unit: µg
- amount: 0
  ingredientAmount: 100
  ingredientUnit: g
  name: Vitamin B5
  unit: mg
- amount: 3.5
  ingredientAmount: 100
  ingredientUnit: g
  name: Poly Unsaturated Fat
  unit: g
- amount: 285
  ingredientAmount: 100
  ingredientUnit: g
  name: Calories
  unit: kcal
- amount: 0
  ingredientAmount: 100
  ingredientUnit: g
  name: Sugar
  unit: g
- amount: 0
  ingredientAmount: 100
  ingredientUnit: g
  name: Fiber
  unit: g
- amount: 0
  ingredientAmount: 100
  ingredientUnit: g
  name: Net Carbohydrates
  unit: g
- amount: 25
  ingredientAmount: 100
  ingredientUnit: g
  name: Protein
  unit: g
- amount: 0
  ingredientAmount: 100
  ingredientUnit: g
  name: Vitamin K
  unit: µg
- amount: 25
  ingredientAmount: 100
  ingredientUnit: g
  name: Fat
  unit: g
- amount: 0
  ingredientAmount: 100
  ingredientUnit: g
  name: Calcium
  unit: mg
- amount: 0
  ingredientAmount: 100
  ingredientUnit: g
  name: Alcohol
  unit: g
related_posts: true
tags:
- sticky
- featured
- capicollo
- coppa
- cured meat
- italian cuisine
- sandwiches
- paninis
- muffuletta
- pasta
- pizza
- char
title: Capicola
---
# The Delicious World of Capicollo: A Culinary Adventure

If you're a foodie with an adventurous palate, you might be thrilled to explore the wonders of capicollo. This Italian cured meat, also known as coppa or capicola, is a true culinary delight that can elevate your dishes to the next level. In this blog post, we will take a deep dive into the tantalizing taste, versatile uses, and fascinating history of capicollo. So, get ready to embark on a delicious adventure!

## The Taste: A Symphony of Flavors

Capicollo is renowned for its exceptional taste, as it effortlessly balances rich, savory, and slightly sweet flavors. The meat is taken from the neck or shoulder of the pig, giving it a beautiful marbling that enhances its overall taste. It is then dry-cured, either hot or sweet, infused with a distinctive blend of spices such as crushed red pepper, garlic, fennel, and black peppercorns.

The result is a succulent and tender meat with a delicate, melt-in-your-mouth texture. The spices add depth and complexity, creating a wonderful harmony of flavors. Capicollo can be found in different levels of spiciness, catering to various palates. Whether you prefer a subtle heat or crave an intense kick, there's a capicollo variety for everyone.

## Versatile Uses: From Sandwiches to Charcuterie Boards

Capicollo's versatility knows no bounds when it comes to culinary applications. Its vibrant taste and beautiful marbling make it a superstar ingredient in a wide range of dishes. Here are some popular ways to enjoy this tantalizing cured meat:

### 1. Sandwiches and Paninis

Capicollo takes center stage in classic Italian sandwiches like the famous Muffuletta or the delicious Caprese. Its tender and flavorsome nature is a perfect match for the fresh ingredients in these sandwiches, creating a burst of flavors in every bite. You can also layer it on a panini with cheese and vegetables for a delightful, warm treat.

### 2. Pasta and Pizza

When it comes to pasta and pizza, capicollo is a game-changer. Thinly sliced capicollo can be added to pasta dishes like carbonara or tossed in with your favorite pizza toppings for a heavenly experience. Its distinct taste elevates these dishes, transforming them into something truly memorable.

### 3. Charcuterie Boards

Capicollo is a must-have for any charcuterie enthusiast. Its magnificent marbling and nuanced flavor make it utterly irresistible. Pair it with a variety of cheeses, olives, bread, and condiments for a stunning charcuterie board that will leave your guests in awe.

## Nutritional Value: A Guilt-Free Indulgence

Not only is capicollo a culinary masterpiece, but it also offers some nutritional benefits. Just like other cured meats, capicollo is a good source of protein, making it an excellent addition to your diet. Additionally, it contains essential minerals such as iron, zinc, and phosphorus. However, it is important to enjoy capicollo in moderation due to its higher fat and sodium content.

## History and Fun Facts: Tales of Tradition

Capicollo has a rich history that stretches back centuries. It originated in Italy, where it was first made by butchers who sought to preserve the meat from the country's abundant pig population. The traditional preparation and curing techniques have been passed down from generation to generation, ensuring that the art of capicollo-making remains alive.

In some regions of Italy, capicollo is considered a delicacy, often associated with special occasions and festive celebrations. Its versatile nature and incredible taste have made it a staple in Italian cuisine, both within the country and globally.

Fun fact: In certain Italian-American communities, it is a tradition to hang capicollo from the rafters of the home to cure and age it. This longstanding practice ensures a unique and heightened taste experience.

## Get Adventurous with Capicollo

Now that you've discovered the delectable world of capicollo, it's time to embark on your culinary adventure. Whether you indulge in a capicollo-filled sandwich, create a masterful charcuterie board, or get creative with pasta and pizza, this versatile cured meat is sure to leave a lasting impression. So, let your taste buds soar and savor the irresistible flavors of capicollo!

**Capicollo**

- **Origin:** Capicollo, also known as coppa or capicola, is a traditional Italian cured meat that originates from Calabria and Sicily in Southern Italy. It was traditionally made from pork neck or shoulder.

- **Common Uses:** Capicollo is commonly used in sandwiches, as a pizza topping, in pasta dishes, and as an ingredient in antipasti platters. It is often enjoyed sliced thin and served cold. It can also be used in cooked dishes where its rich flavor and tender texture add depth to the dish.

- **Nutritional Benefits:** Capicollo is a good source of protein, vitamins, and minerals. It is also a decent source of monounsaturated fats and cholesterol. However, it is important to note that capicollo is a processed meat and should be consumed in moderation as part of a balanced diet.

- **Unique Properties:** Capicollo is made from pork shoulder or neck, which are marinated in a mixture of spices, such as garlic, black pepper, fennel seeds, and sometimes, red chili flakes. The marinated meat is then cured for a period of time before being air-dried. This process gives capicollo its unique flavor profile and tender texture.

- **Historical Significance:** Capicollo has a long history dating back to ancient times. It was an essential part of Roman cuisine and was highly prized for its flavor and curing techniques. The tradition of making capicollo has been passed down through generations, and it continues to be a favorite Italian charcuterie item today.
